<h1>Documentation of IoT-Enriched Event Log</h1>

The proposed IoT-enriched event log is created by using the DataStream/SensorStream XES extension [3,4]. The log has been generated by executing processes in a
[physical smart factory model](https://iot.uni-trier.de). The IoT-enriched event log can be downloaded as ZIP-file. Each ZIP-file contains one version of the log. In our paper, we provide two different versions: one version is the native log with data quality issues such as delayed or missing events etc. and a cleaned version without these issues. To use one or both of the logs, please unzip the files with corresponding software. The event logs can be freely used considering the [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en) license. In the following, we describe how the logs are structured.

<h2>How to Use the Event Log</h2>

After unzipping the files, you can see many files. The main file is the "MainProcess.xes" file that represents all top-level events. It is important to note that these events are executed by the machine resources in our smart factory. For example, the _burn_ activity is represented by three corresponding top-level events: 1) One event with lifecycle transition _scheduled_ that represents that the resource receives the requested command and put it into its queue, 2) lifecycle transition _start_ that represents the beginning of the operation on the resource, and 3) lifecycle transition _complete_ that represent the corresponding end of the execution. In addition, the state of the lifecycle is also added to the events. We divide into the following states: _assigned_, _inProgress_, _success_, and _failure_. _assigned_ can be used in transition _scheduled_, _inProgress_ can be used in transition _start_, and _success_ and _failure_ in transition _complete_. If the activity is in the _inProgress_ lifecycle state, the activity is subdivided in several subevents. These subevents are stored in a separate file. To link the event with its subevents, the ID of the file is given as an XES attribute.

```xml
<string key="SubProcessID" value="2f5c3708-5e23-49cc-9e13-0ccef19050d4" />
```

In the unzipped folder, the "2f5c3708-5e23-49cc-9e13-0ccef19050d4.xes" file then contains all subevents as a trace. Please consider that the complete IoT sensor data is contained as a list in these subevents [3]. The log can then be processed using well-established methods from BPM (e.g., ProM or Fluxicon Disco), although there are no methods for using the IoT sensor data directly.

<h2>How to Use the Semantic Descriptions</h2>

Our proposed event log uses the domain ontology FTOnto [2]. This ontology represents the knowledge about our production environment by reusing the well-established ontologies SOSA, SSN, and MASON. Sensors and actuators are described in detail in the domain ontology by text comments and by the relations to other semantic concepts. For example, the ontology contains value ranges of the individual sensors etc. The domain ontology is also freely available at [https://gitlab.rlp.net/iot-lab-uni-trier/ftonto](https://gitlab.rlp.net/iot-lab-uni-trier/ftonto). Please have a look at _How to cite the Event Log and the Domain Ontology_ for suitable citation.

<h2>How to Cite the Event Log and the Domain Ontology</h2>

If you use the IoT-enriched event log in your research work, we would kindly ask to cite the corresponding entry with the DOI from FigShare:

_L. Malburg, J. Grüger, R. Bergmann, Dataset: An IoT-Enriched Event Log for Process Mining in Smart Factories (2022)._ <https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.20130794>.

In addition, you can also cite the corresponding paper next to the FigShare link:

[1] _L. Malburg, J. Grüger, R. Bergmann, An IoT-Enriched Event Log for Process Mining in Smart Factories. In: arXiv:2209.02702 (2022)._

For referencing to the ontology, please use the following research paper:

[2] _P. Klein, L. Malburg, R. Bergmann, FTOnto: A Domain Ontology for a Fischertechnik Factory by Reusing Existing Ontologies. In: 21st LWDA, vol. 2454, CEUR-WS.org, pp. 253-264 (2019)._

<h3>Further References</h3>

[3] _Mangler, J.; Grüger, J.; Malburg, L.; Ehrendorfer, M.; Bertrand, Y.; Benzin, J.-V.; Rinderle-Ma, S.; Serral Asensio, E.; Bergmann, R. DataStream XES Extension: Embedding IoT Sensor Data into Extensible Event Stream Logs. Future Internet 2023, 15, 109._ <https://doi.org/10.3390/fi15030109>

[4] _J. Grüger, L. Malburg, J. Mangler, Y. Bertrand, S. Rinderle-Ma, R. Bergmann, E. Serral Asensio, SensorStream: An XES Extension for Enriching Event Logs with IoT-Sensor Data. In: arXiv:2206.11392 (2022)._


<h2>License</h2>

The IoT-enriched event log can be freely used as it is licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en).

<h2>Contact</h2>

If you have any questions regarding the IoT-enriched event log or the domain ontology FTOnto, please feel free to contact Lukas Malburg at [malburg@uni-trier.de](mailto:malburgl@uni-trier.de) and/or Joscha Grüger at [grueger@uni-trier.de](mailto:grueger@uni-trier.de).